docs/new-extensibility-model/extension-guides/command/command.md, before:

---
title: Commands reference
description: A reference for extensibility commands
date: 2021-8-16
---

# Commands

Commands trigger actions in Visual Studio. They manifest as buttons parented to menus and/or toolbars in the IDE with their execution tied to user interaction. Commands in the new Extensibility Model run asynchronously and so the user can continue to interact with IDE while commands are executing.

## Creating new commands

To get started, follow the [create the project](../getting-started/create-your-first-extension.md) section in Getting Started section.

### Registering a command

Creating a command with the new Extensibility Model is as simple as extending the base class `Microsoft.VisualStudio.Extensibility.Commands.Command` and adorning your class with the attribute `Microsoft.VisualStudio.Extensibility.Commands.CommandAttribute`.

The attribute [Microsoft.VisualStudio.Extensibility.Commands.CommandAttribute](./../../api/Microsoft.VisualStudio.Extensibility.md/#commandattribute-type) has a few parameters that you should become familiar with:

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- |----- | -------- | ----------- |
| Name | String | Yes | A globally unique identifier for the command. It is recommended to use the full class name of your command here. |
| DisplayName | String | Yes | The default display name of your command. Surround this string with the '%' character to enable localizing this string. See more on this at [Localizing a command](#localizing-a-command). |
| ContainerType | Type? | No | The type that is to act as the CommandSet for this command. Setting this parameter to null automatically generates a default CommandSet for your command. |
| Placement | KnownCommandPlacement | No | Indicates where within Visual Studio your command should be parented. If no placement is provided the command defaults to being parented to the Standard toolbar. |
| ClientContexts | String | No | Client contexts requested by the command, separated by ','. By default the Shell and Editor contexts are returned. A client context is a snapshot of specific IDE states at the time a command was originally executed. Since these commands are executed asynchronously this state could change between the time the user executed the command and the command handler running. See more on this at [Client contexts](./../../inside-the-sdk/activation-constraints.md/#client-contexts). |

```csharp
[Command(CommandName, "Sample Remote Command", placement: KnownCommandPlacement.ToolsMenu)]
public class CommandHandler : Command
{
	private const string CommandName = "SimpleRemoteCommandSample.Command";

	public CommandHandler(VisualStudioExtensibility extensibility, TraceSource traceSource, string name)
		: base(extensibility, name)
	{
	}

	public override Task ExecuteCommandAsync(IClientContext context, CancellationToken cancellationToken)
	{
		return Task.CompletedTask;
	}
}
```

See the [InsertGuidSample](./../insert-guid-sample.md) sample to get started with creating an extension with a command.

### Adding an icon

Commands support adding icons to their menu item in addition to or instead of the display name of the command. To add an icon to your command, add the attribute [Microsoft.VisualStudio.Extensibility.Commands.CommandIconAttribute](./../../api/Microsoft.VisualStudio.Extensibility.md/#commandiconattribute-type) to your command class.

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- |----- | -------- | ----------- |
| ImageMoniker | String | Yes | You can either use a custom moniker for an image that you added following the [Adding custom images](#adding-custom-images) section or reference a VS KnownMoniker like `KnownMonikers.AddItem` |
| IconSettings | IconSettings | Yes | Configures how the command will be displayed. For example `IconSettings.IconAndText` displays the icon alongside the command's display name, whereas `IconSettings.IconOnly` will only show the command's icon and not its DisplayName if parented to a toolbar. |

```csharp
[CommandIcon(KnownMonikers.Extension, IconSettings.IconAndText)]
```
or
```csharp
[CommandIcon("MyImage", IconSettings.IconAndText)]
```

### Adding custom images

With support added in 17.2, you can now add custom images which you can later reference with custom monikers with the following steps:
1. Rename the image source files to follow the `%Custom Moniker%.*` pattern (e.g: `MyMoniker.1.png`). Files prefixed with the same moniker will all be used as backing sources for the same custom moniker. Different source will be used based on the requested icon size.
	- For example, `MyImage.16.16.png` (a 16\*16 png), `MyImage.20.20.png` (a 20\*20 png) and `MyImage.xaml` are all considered as sources for `MyImage`. 
	- When the requested icon size is 16*16, `MyImage.16.16.png` will be used, when requested size is 20\*20, `MyImage.20.20.png` will be used, in all other cases, `MyImage.xaml` will be used. 
2. Put all of the image source files under `Images` folder.
	- The default image assets folder is `Images`, but you can also customized it by adding `<ImageAssetsPath>%YourFolder%</ImageAssetsPath>`

### Controlling command visibility

The visibility of a command can be controlled by adding the attribute [Microsoft.VisualStudio.Extensibility.Commands.CommandVisibleWhenAttribute](./../../api/Microsoft.VisualStudio.Extensibility.md/#commandvisiblewhenattribute-type) to your command class. This attribute supports specifying an expression, defining a set of terms used in the expression, and what values those terms should be replaced with upon evaluation. Note: Term names and values are mapped to their index in the array. i.e. the term name at index 0 corresponds with the term value at that same index. The command would be visible when the expression evaluates to true, and invisible when it is false.

If this attribute is omitted from your command, the default is for the command to always be visible.

An example of such an expression can be seen here:
```csharp
// This command would become visible when an editor for a file with any file extension is active.
[CommandVisibleWhen(
	expression: "AnyFile",
	termNames: new string[] { "AnyFile" },
	termValues: new string[] { "ClientContext:Shell.ActiveEditorContentType=.+" })]
```

To see more information on valid term values:
- [Using rule based activation constraints](../../inside-the-sdk/activation-constraints.md/#rule-based-activation-constraints)

### Controlling command Enabled/Disabled state

The visibility of a command can be controlled by adding the attribute [Microsoft.VisualStudio.Extensibility.Commands.CommandEnabledWhenAttribute](./../../api/Microsoft.VisualStudio.Extensibility.md/#commandenabledwhenattribute-type) to your command class. This attribute supports specifying an expression, defining a set of terms used in the expression, and what values those terms should be replaced with upon evaluation. Note: Term names and values are mapped to their index in the array. i.e. the term name at index 0 corresponds with the term value at that same index. The command would be enabled when the expression evaluates to true, and disabled when it is false. 

If this attribute is omitted from your command, the default is for the command to always be enabled. You can also automatically have your command be disabled if it is currently executing by setting `this.DisableDuringExecution = true;` in the constructor of your command class. Setting this property will override the enabled/disabled state defined by the `Microsoft.VisualStudio.Extensibility.Commands.CommandEnabledWhenAttribute` while the command is being executed.

An example of such an expression can be seen here:
```csharp
// This command would become enabled when a solution is loaded in the IDE and a file with the file 
// extension ".jpg", ".jpeg", or ".txt" is selected in the Solution Explorer.
[CommandEnabledWhen(
	expression: "SolutionLoaded & IsValidFile",
	termNames: new string[] { "SolutionLoaded", "IsValidFile" },
	termValues: new string[] { "SolutionState:Exists", "ClientContext:Shell.ActiveSelectionFileName=(.jpg|.jpeg|.txt)$" })]
```

To see more information on valid term values:
- [Using rule based activation constraints](./../../inside-the-sdk/activation-constraints.md/#rule-based-activation-constraints)

### Localizing a command

The text displayed on a command can be localized by including `string-resources.json` files with your extension and formatting the DisplayName parameter with the '%' character on either end in your [Microsoft.VisualStudio.Extensibility.Commands.CommandAttribute](./../../api/Microsoft.VisualStudio.Extensibility.md/#commandattribute-type).

Localized Command DisplayName
```csharp
[Command(CommandName, "%Microsoft.VisualStudio.MyExtension.SampleRemoteCommand.DisplayName%", placement: KnownCommandPlacement.ToolsMenu)]
```

#### string-resources.json

Your extension should provide a `string-resources.json` file for every language that your extension supports. This JSON file is a dictionary of key/value pairs where the key is a globally (all of Visual Studio) unique identifier for a string resource and the value is the localized string resource. These JSON files should be deployed with your extension under the ".vsextension" directory, with each language you support being shipped in a folder matching the name of the locale i.e. "de" for German, "it" for Italian, etc. The `string-resources.json` deployed at the root of the ".vsextension" directory is used as the default if your extension does not support the language that Visual Studio is currently set to. An example of what this directory structure would look like can be seen here:

![Localization directory structure](localizing-a-command.png "Localization directory structure")

string-resources.json sample:
```json
{
	"Microsoft.VisualStudio.MyExtension.SampleRemoteCommand.DisplayName": "Sample Remote Command",
	"Microsoft.VisualStudio.MyExtension.OutputWindowTest.DisplayName": "Output Window Test"
}
```

Commit message:

Dev/rytoth/commands phase 2 (#102)
* Update commanding docs for phase 2

* Rename 'name' to 'id' in another place

* Address PR feedback

docs/new-extensibility-model/extension-guides/command/command.md, after:

---
title: Commands reference
description: A reference for extensibility commands
date: 2022-7-20
---

# Commands

Commands trigger actions in Visual Studio. They manifest as buttons parented to menus and/or toolbars in the IDE with their execution tied to user interaction. Commands in the new Extensibility Model run asynchronously and so the user can continue to interact with IDE while commands are executing.

## Creating new commands

To get started, follow the [create the project](../getting-started/create-your-first-extension.md) section in Getting Started section.

### Registering a command

Creating a command with the new Extensibility Model is as simple as extending the base class `Microsoft.VisualStudio.Extensibility.Commands.Command` and adorning your class with the attribute `Microsoft.VisualStudio.Extensibility.Commands.CommandAttribute`.

The attribute [Microsoft.VisualStudio.Extensibility.Commands.CommandAttribute](./../../api/Microsoft.VisualStudio.Extensibility.md/#commandattribute-type) has a few parameters that you should become familiar with:

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- |----- | -------- | ----------- |
| Id | String | Yes | A globally unique identifier for the command. It is recommended to use the full class name of your command here. |
| DisplayName | String | Yes | The default display name of your command. Surround this string with the '%' character to enable localizing this string. See more on this at [Localizing a command](#localizing-a-command). |
| TooltipText | String | No | The text to display as the tooltip when the command is hovered or focused. Added in 17.3. |
| Flags | CommandFlags | No | Flags to set additional properties on the command. Some options include CanToggle and CanSelect. Added in 17.3. See more on this at [Command Flags](#command-flags) |
| ContainerType | Type? | No | The type that is to act as the CommandSet for this command. Setting this parameter to null automatically generates a default CommandSet for your command. |
| Placement | KnownCommandPlacement | No | Indicates where within Visual Studio your command should be parented. If no placement is provided the command defaults to being parented to the Standard toolbar. |
| ClientContexts | String | No | Client contexts requested by the command, separated by ','. By default the Shell and Editor contexts are returned. A client context is a snapshot of specific IDE states at the time a command was originally executed. Since these commands are executed asynchronously this state could change between the time the user executed the command and the command handler running. See more on this at [Client contexts](./../../inside-the-sdk/activation-constraints.md/#client-contexts). |

```csharp
[Command(CommandId, "Sample Remote Command", placement: KnownCommandPlacement.ToolsMenu)]
public class CommandWithCallback : Command
{
	private const string CommandId = "SimpleRemoteCommandSample.Command";

	public CommandWithCallback(VisualStudioExtensibility extensibility, TraceSource traceSource, string id)
		: base(extensibility, id)
	{
	}

	public override Task ExecuteCommandAsync(IClientContext context, CancellationToken cancellationToken)
	{
		return Task.CompletedTask;
	}
}
```

See the [InsertGuidSample](./../insert-guid-sample.md) sample to get started with creating an extension with a command.

### Command Placement

There are a set of well defined places in Visual Studio that commands can be placed. These placements are defined by the enum `Microsoft.VisualStudio.Extensibility.Commands.KnownCommandPlacement` and is passed into the constructor of the [Microsoft.VisualStudio.Extensibility.Commands.CommandAttribute](./../../api/Microsoft.VisualStudio.Extensibility.md/#commandattribute-type) on your class. The current set of supported placements are:

- `KnownCommandPlacement.ToolsMenu` - The command will be placed in a group under the top level "Tools" menu in Visual Studio.
- `KnownCommandPlacement.ViewOtherWindowsMenu` - The command will be placed in a group under the top level "View" -> "Other Windows" menu in Visual Studio.
- `KnownCommandPlacement.ExtensionsMenu` - The command will be placed in a group under the top level "Extensions" menu in Visual Studio.

### Adding an icon

Commands support adding icons to their menu item in addition to or instead of the display name of the command. To add an icon to your command, add the attribute [Microsoft.VisualStudio.Extensibility.Commands.CommandIconAttribute](./../../api/Microsoft.VisualStudio.Extensibility.md/#commandiconattribute-type) to your command class.

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- |----- | -------- | ----------- |
| ImageMoniker | String | Yes | You can either use a custom moniker for an image that you added following the [Adding custom images](#adding-custom-images) section or reference a VS KnownMoniker like `KnownMonikers.AddItem` |
| IconSettings | IconSettings | Yes | Configures how the command will be displayed. For example `IconSettings.IconAndText` displays the icon alongside the command's display name, whereas `IconSettings.IconOnly` will only show the command's icon and not its DisplayName if parented to a toolbar. |

```csharp
[CommandIcon(KnownMonikers.Extension, IconSettings.IconAndText)]
```
or
```csharp
[CommandIcon("MyImage", IconSettings.IconAndText)]
```

### Adding custom images

With support added in 17.2, you can now add custom images which you can later reference with custom monikers with the following steps:
1. Rename the image source files to follow the `%Custom Moniker%.*` pattern (e.g: `MyMoniker.1.png`). Files prefixed with the same moniker will all be used as backing sources for the same custom moniker. Different source will be used based on the requested icon size.
	- For example, `MyImage.16.16.png` (a 16\*16 png), `MyImage.20.20.png` (a 20\*20 png) and `MyImage.xaml` are all considered as sources for `MyImage`. 
	- When the requested icon size is 16*16, `MyImage.16.16.png` will be used, when requested size is 20\*20, `MyImage.20.20.png` will be used, in all other cases, `MyImage.xaml` will be used.
2. Put all of the image source files under `Images` folder.
	- The default image assets folder is `Images`, but you can also customized it by adding `<ImageAssetsPath>%YourFolder%</ImageAssetsPath>`

### Controlling command visibility

The visibility of a command can be controlled by adding the attribute [Microsoft.VisualStudio.Extensibility.Commands.CommandVisibleWhenAttribute](./../../api/Microsoft.VisualStudio.Extensibility.md/#commandvisiblewhenattribute-type) to your command class. This attribute supports specifying an expression, defining a set of terms used in the expression, and what values those terms should be replaced with upon evaluation. Note: Term names and values are mapped to their index in the array. i.e. the term name at index 0 corresponds with the term value at that same index. The command would be visible when the expression evaluates to true, and invisible when it is false.

If this attribute is omitted from your command, the default is for the command to always be visible.

An example of such an expression can be seen here:
```csharp
// This command would become visible when an editor for a file with any file extension is active.
[CommandVisibleWhen(
	expression: "AnyFile",
	termNames: new string[] { "AnyFile" },
	termValues: new string[] { "ClientContext:Shell.ActiveEditorContentType=.+" })]
```

To see more information on valid term values:
- [Using rule based activation constraints](../../inside-the-sdk/activation-constraints.md/#rule-based-activation-constraints)

### Controlling command Enabled/Disabled state

The visibility of a command can be controlled by adding the attribute [Microsoft.VisualStudio.Extensibility.Commands.CommandEnabledWhenAttribute](./../../api/Microsoft.VisualStudio.Extensibility.md/#commandenabledwhenattribute-type) to your command class. This attribute supports specifying an expression, defining a set of terms used in the expression, and what values those terms should be replaced with upon evaluation. Note: Term names and values are mapped to their index in the array. i.e. the term name at index 0 corresponds with the term value at that same index. The command would be enabled when the expression evaluates to true, and disabled when it is false. 

If this attribute is omitted from your command, the default is for the command to always be enabled. You can also automatically have your command be disabled if it is currently executing by setting `this.DisableDuringExecution = true;` in the constructor of your command class. Setting this property will override the enabled/disabled state defined by the `Microsoft.VisualStudio.Extensibility.Commands.CommandEnabledWhenAttribute` while the command is being executed.

An example of such an expression can be seen here:
```csharp
// This command would become enabled when a solution is loaded in the IDE and a file with the file 
// extension ".jpg", ".jpeg", or ".txt" is selected in the Solution Explorer.
[CommandEnabledWhen(
	expression: "SolutionLoaded & IsValidFile",
	termNames: new string[] { "SolutionLoaded", "IsValidFile" },
	termValues: new string[] { "SolutionState:Exists", "ClientContext:Shell.ActiveSelectionFileName=(.jpg|.jpeg|.txt)$" })]
```

To see more information on valid term values:
- [Using rule based activation constraints](./../../inside-the-sdk/activation-constraints.md/#rule-based-activation-constraints)

### Command Flags

Command flags help define additional properties on your commands that are used at runtime to define special behaviors that your command can have. The flags that are currently supported are:

- `CanToggle` - Indicates that the `IsChecked` property of the command can change so that screen readers can announce the command properly. Functionally, it ensures that the automation property `IsTogglePatternAvailable` return true for the UI element.
- `CanSelect` - Indicates that the `IsChecked` property of the command can change so that screen readers can announce the command properly. Functionally, it ensures that the automation property `IsSelectionPatternAvailable` return true for the UI element.

### Localizing a command

The text displayed on a command can be localized by including `string-resources.json` files with your extension and formatting the DisplayName parameter with the '%' character on either end in your [Microsoft.VisualStudio.Extensibility.Commands.CommandAttribute](./../../api/Microsoft.VisualStudio.Extensibility.md/#commandattribute-type).

Localized Command DisplayName
```csharp
[Command(CommandId, "%Microsoft.VisualStudio.MyExtension.SampleRemoteCommand.DisplayName%", placement: KnownCommandPlacement.ToolsMenu)]
```

#### string-resources.json

Your extension should provide a `string-resources.json` file for every language that your extension supports. This JSON file is a dictionary of key/value pairs where the key is a globally (all of Visual Studio) unique identifier for a string resource and the value is the localized string resource. These JSON files should be deployed with your extension under the ".vsextension" directory, with each language you support being shipped in a folder matching the name of the locale i.e. "de" for German, "it" for Italian, etc. The `string-resources.json` deployed at the root of the ".vsextension" directory is used as the default if your extension does not support the language that Visual Studio is currently set to. An example of what this directory structure would look like can be seen here:

![Localization directory structure](localizing-a-command.png "Localization directory structure")

string-resources.json sample:
```json
{
	"Microsoft.VisualStudio.MyExtension.SampleRemoteCommand.DisplayName": "Sample Remote Command",
	"Microsoft.VisualStudio.MyExtension.OutputWindowTest.DisplayName": "Output Window Test"
}
```
