docs/announcements.md, before:

---
title: Announcements Reference
description: A reference for extensibility announcements
date: 2022-8-10
---

# Announcements
Use this page to stay up-to-date on all upcoming extensibility announcements and critical SDK/API updates.
## September 12, 2024
We've released updated packages starting with the Visual Studio 17.12 official release. This version adds the following new features:
* Ability to customize your extensions further with settings support
* Show images and use context menus in remote UI
* Enhance your tool windows with toolbars

To learn more, plesae see our [announcement on the Visual Studio blog](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/visualstudio/visualstudio-extensibility-17-11-settings-and-more-remote-ui-support/).

## February 20, 2024
We've released updated packages and templates starting with the Visual Studio 2022 17.9 official release. This version adds the following new features:
* Create VSIX packages that can be shared with other users and published to the Visual Studio Marketplace
* Install VisualStudio.Extensibility-based extensions without restarting Visual Studio
* Configure your extensions in-code with updated configuration properties
* Create dockable/non-modal debugger visualizers
* Leverage your LSP servers in your extensions
* Query the project system with an enhanced query API.

To learn more, please see our [announcement on the Visual Studio blog](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/visualstudio/visualstudio-extensibility-17-9/).

In addition, we've also formalized our stability model for our APIs, and added the following new pages:
* [Known Issues](./known_issues.md) - lists known issues with the VisualStudio.Extensibility SDK.
* [Experimental APIs](./experimental_apis.md) - lists APIs that are considered experimental/non-stable and describes how to use them.
* [Breaking Changes](./breaking_changes.md) - lists APIs that have had breaking changes since the previous release.

## May 19, 2023
* Documentation moved to the Learn platform: [https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/extensibility/visualstudio.extensibility/?view=vs-2022](VisualStudio.Extensibility documentation)

## November 9, 2022
* Released updated VisualStudio.Extensibility packages, samples for Visual Studio 2022 version 17.5 Preview 1 release. 

## October 11, 2022
* Released updated VisualStudio.Extensibility packages, samples for Visual Studio 2022 version 17.4 Preview 3 release. In-proc extensions using earlier VisualStudio.Extensibility packages are no longer compatible with this release due to a namespace change.

## September 12, 2022
* Released updated VisualStudio.Extensibility packages, samples for Visual Studio 2022 version 17.4 Preview 2 release. The older versions are no longer compatible with this release due to breaking changes.

## September 8, 2021
* VSExtensibility site/repository goes public!

## August 10, 2022
* [VisualStudio.Extensibility phase 2](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/visualstudio/visualstudio-extensibility/) is released publicly adding more extensibility feature areas.

Commit message:

Add announcement for dotnet runtime requirement.

docs/announcements.md, after:

---
title: Announcements Reference
description: A reference for extensibility announcements
date: 2022-8-10
---

# Announcements
Use this page to stay up-to-date on all upcoming extensibility announcements and critical SDK/API updates.

## February 10, 2025
VisualStudio.Extensibility extensions that execute on .NET runtime will need to stay up to date with the latest version of .NET in service. Read more about this change in our [announcement on the Visual Studio blog](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/visualstudio/visualstudio-extensibility-managing-net-runtime-versions/).

## September 12, 2024
We've released updated packages starting with the Visual Studio 17.12 official release. This version adds the following new features:
* Ability to customize your extensions further with settings support
* Show images and use context menus in remote UI
* Enhance your tool windows with toolbars

To learn more, plesae see our [announcement on the Visual Studio blog](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/visualstudio/visualstudio-extensibility-17-11-settings-and-more-remote-ui-support/).

## February 20, 2024
We've released updated packages and templates starting with the Visual Studio 2022 17.9 official release. This version adds the following new features:
* Create VSIX packages that can be shared with other users and published to the Visual Studio Marketplace
* Install VisualStudio.Extensibility-based extensions without restarting Visual Studio
* Configure your extensions in-code with updated configuration properties
* Create dockable/non-modal debugger visualizers
* Leverage your LSP servers in your extensions
* Query the project system with an enhanced query API.

To learn more, please see our [announcement on the Visual Studio blog](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/visualstudio/visualstudio-extensibility-17-9/).

In addition, we've also formalized our stability model for our APIs, and added the following new pages:
* [Known Issues](./known_issues.md) - lists known issues with the VisualStudio.Extensibility SDK.
* [Experimental APIs](./experimental_apis.md) - lists APIs that are considered experimental/non-stable and describes how to use them.
* [Breaking Changes](./breaking_changes.md) - lists APIs that have had breaking changes since the previous release.

## May 19, 2023
* Documentation moved to the Learn platform: [https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/extensibility/visualstudio.extensibility/?view=vs-2022](VisualStudio.Extensibility documentation)

## November 9, 2022
* Released updated VisualStudio.Extensibility packages, samples for Visual Studio 2022 version 17.5 Preview 1 release. 

## October 11, 2022
* Released updated VisualStudio.Extensibility packages, samples for Visual Studio 2022 version 17.4 Preview 3 release. In-proc extensions using earlier VisualStudio.Extensibility packages are no longer compatible with this release due to a namespace change.

## September 12, 2022
* Released updated VisualStudio.Extensibility packages, samples for Visual Studio 2022 version 17.4 Preview 2 release. The older versions are no longer compatible with this release due to breaking changes.

## September 8, 2021
* VSExtensibility site/repository goes public!

## August 10, 2022
* [VisualStudio.Extensibility phase 2](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/visualstudio/visualstudio-extensibility/) is released publicly adding more extensibility feature areas.
