New_Extensibility_Model/Samples/OutputWindowSample/README.md, before:

---
title: Output Window Sample Extension reference
description: A reference for Output Window Sample extension
date: 2022-08-01
---

# Walkthrough: Output Window Sample Extension

This extension demonstrates the most basic usage of the [Output Window API](https://learn.microsoft.com/visualstudio/extensibility/visualstudio.extensibility/output-window/output-window)

## Summary

This extension adds a [command](https://learn.microsoft.com/visualstudio/extensibility/visualstudio.extensibility/command/command) to the Tools menu called "Test the Output Window". When invoked, the command will print `"This is a test of the output window."` to the Output pane in a Channel called "MyOutputWindow" (look for the Channel name in the "Show output from:" dropdown in the Output pane).

## TestOutputWindowCommand

[`TestOutputWindowCommand.cs`](TestOutputWindowCommand.cs) contains a command that demonstrates two parts of the Output Window API.

### Getting an Output Window Channel

The `GetOutputWindowAsync()` method creates an Output Window Channel by calling `Extensibility.Views().Output.GetChannelAsync()`. `GetChannelAsync()` takes the name of a resource from the ResourceManager set up in the [`Extension` class](#extension-class).

See [Getting an Output Window Channel](https://learn.microsoft.com/visualstudio/extensibility/visualstudio.extensibility/output-window/output-window#get-an-output-window-channel) for more information.

### Writing to the Output Window

In the `ExecuteCommandAsync()` method, the `Writer` property of the `OutputWindow` instance is used to write a message to the Output pane in the IDE.

See [Writing to the Output Window](https://learn.microsoft.com/visualstudio/extensibility/visualstudio.extensibility/output-window/output-window#write-to-the-output-window) for more information.

## Extension Class

As described in the [Output Window Display Name Resource ID requirements](https://learn.microsoft.com/visualstudio/extensibility/visualstudio.extensibility/output-window/output-window#display-name-resource-id-requirements), the current version of the Output Window API requires that the display name for the Output Window Channel be stored in a [Resource File](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/extensions/resources) (such as a [`.resx`](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/extensions/resources) resource file.)

In order for the call to `OutputExtensibility.GetChannelAsync()` to find the display name, the resource file must be associated with the [`Extension` Instance](https://learn.microsoft.com/visualstudio/extensibility/visualstudio.extensibility/inside-the-sdk/extension-anatomy#extension-instance) by overriding the `ResourceManager` property.

[`OutputWindowSampleExtension.cs`](OutputWindowSampleExtension.cs) demonstrates this functionality.

## Resources File

The [`Strings.resx`](Strings.resx) file is a [Resource File](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/extensions/resources) that contains the display name of the Output Window Channel for this extension.

Commit message:

Add disclaimer to Output Window readme

New_Extensibility_Model/Samples/OutputWindowSample/README.md, after:

---
title: Output Window Sample Extension reference
description: A reference for Output Window Sample extension
date: 2022-08-01
---

# Walkthrough: Output Window Sample Extension

This extension demonstrates the most basic usage of the [Output Window API](https://learn.microsoft.com/visualstudio/extensibility/visualstudio.extensibility/output-window/output-window)

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The VisualStudio.Extensibility Output window APIs are currently in preview and are subject to change. Any extension that leverages these APIs may fail to work in future versions of Visual Studio and will need to be updated when a newer version of the APIs is released.

## Summary

This extension adds a [command](https://learn.microsoft.com/visualstudio/extensibility/visualstudio.extensibility/command/command) to the Tools menu called "Test the Output Window". When invoked, the command will print `"This is a test of the output window."` to the Output pane in a Channel called "MyOutputWindow" (look for the Channel name in the "Show output from:" dropdown in the Output pane).

## TestOutputWindowCommand

[`TestOutputWindowCommand.cs`](TestOutputWindowCommand.cs) contains a command that demonstrates two parts of the Output Window API.

### Getting an Output Window Channel

The `GetOutputWindowAsync()` method creates an Output Window Channel by calling `Extensibility.Views().Output.GetChannelAsync()`. `GetChannelAsync()` takes the name of a resource from the ResourceManager set up in the [`Extension` class](#extension-class).

See [Getting an Output Window Channel](https://learn.microsoft.com/visualstudio/extensibility/visualstudio.extensibility/output-window/output-window#get-an-output-window-channel) for more information.

### Writing to the Output Window

In the `ExecuteCommandAsync()` method, the `Writer` property of the `OutputWindow` instance is used to write a message to the Output pane in the IDE.

See [Writing to the Output Window](https://learn.microsoft.com/visualstudio/extensibility/visualstudio.extensibility/output-window/output-window#write-to-the-output-window) for more information.

## Extension Class

As described in the [Output Window Display Name Resource ID requirements](https://learn.microsoft.com/visualstudio/extensibility/visualstudio.extensibility/output-window/output-window#display-name-resource-id-requirements), the current version of the Output Window API requires that the display name for the Output Window Channel be stored in a [Resource File](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/extensions/resources) (such as a [`.resx`](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/extensions/resources) resource file.)

In order for the call to `OutputExtensibility.GetChannelAsync()` to find the display name, the resource file must be associated with the [`Extension` Instance](https://learn.microsoft.com/visualstudio/extensibility/visualstudio.extensibility/inside-the-sdk/extension-anatomy#extension-instance) by overriding the `ResourceManager` property.

[`OutputWindowSampleExtension.cs`](OutputWindowSampleExtension.cs) demonstrates this functionality.

## Resources File

The [`Strings.resx`](Strings.resx) file is a [Resource File](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/extensions/resources) that contains the display name of the Output Window Channel for this extension.
